Please answer the below Data Structure Questions:

why do we need data structure?
A.Data structures are necessary for designing efficient algorithms. It provides reusability and abstraction.

What are the various operations that can be performed on different Data Structures?
A.IsEmpty
  AddBefore
  AddAfter
  Push
  Pop
  ExtractMax
  Sort

List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively?
A.Artificial intelligence
  Operating systems
  Compiler Design
  Database Management System
  Statistical analysis package
  Graphics
  Simulation
  Numerical Analysis

what is an Array?
A.Arrays are used to store multiple values in a single variable, instead of declaring separate variables for each value.

what is the difference between the Array and ArrayList?
A.An array has both primitive data types as well as object data types. However, ArrayList has only object-type data entries and not primitive data types.

what is LinkedList?
A.LinkedList is a part of the collection framework present in the Java.util package.

How is an Array different from Linked List?
A.An Array is a collection of elements of a similar data type. LinkedList is an ordered collection of elements of the same type in which each element is connected to the next using pointers.

what is queue?
A.Queue is an ordered list of elements.

what is stack?
A.Stack is a class that falls under the collection framework that extends the vector class.

what is FIFO and LIFO?
A.FIFO: First-in-first-out, in which we enter the data elements into the data structure; the data element added at last in any data structure will be removed out last and the element added first will be removed first.

what is the order of complexity?'
A.The most common complexity classes are (in ascending order of complexity): O(1), O(log n), O(n), O(n log n), O(n²).

what is the best case to search an element from an array?
A.The best-case performance for the Linear Search Algorithm is when the search item appears at the beginning of the list and is o(1)

what is the worst case to search an element from an array?
A.The worst case to search an element from an array is when the search item appears at the end of the list or not at all.

what is tree in data structure?
A.A tree is a non-linear data structure and a hierarchy consisting of a collection of nodes such that each node of the tree stores a value and a list of references to other nodes.

what is graph in data structure?
A.A graph is a non-linear kind of data structure made up of nodes or vertices and edges.

what is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
A.The difference between HashTable and HashMap is that HashMap is non-synchronized whereas HashTable is synchronized. HashTable is thread-safe and can be shared between multiple threads but HashMap cannot be shared between multiple threads without proper synchronization.

What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model.
A.RDMS = Array of structures
  Network data model = Graph
  Hierarchical data model = Trees

How HashMap works in java?
A. HashMap stores entries into multiple singly linked lists, called buckets or bins.

What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When it occurs?
A.It is a runtime exception in Java that occurs when an array is accessed with an illegal index. The index is either negative or greeted than or equal to the size of the array.

What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
A.Using a for loop and copy elements of one to another one by one
  Use the clone method to clone an array
  Use arraycopy() method of system class
  Use copyOf() or copyOfRange() methods of Arrays class.

What is difference between an array and a linked list?
A.An array is a collection of elements of a similar data type. Linked list is an ordered collection of elements of the same type in which each element is connected to the next using pointers.

What is DFS and BFS?
A.DFS: Depth First Search, is an algorithm for traversing or searching tree or graph data structures. DFS uses Stack data structures.
  BFS: Breadth First Search, is a node method of obtaining the graph’s shortest path. BFS uses the queue data structure for finding the shortest path.

What is Recursion?
A.Recursion is the technique of making a function call itself. This technique provides a way to break complicated problems down into simple problems which are easier to solve.

What are linear and non linear data Structures?
A.In linear data structure, the data elements connect to each other sequentially. A user can transverse each element through a single run.
  In a non-linear data structure, the data elements connect to each other hierarchically.

What is Big-(O)-notation?
A.It is a tool used to describe the time complexity of algorithms. It calculates the time taken to run an algorithm as the input grows. The Big O Notation describes the upper bound of an algorithm runtime.

Outlined different kind of sorting algorithm with time complexity?
A.

Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
  a)In terms of Accessing element.
  b)In terms of Inserting element.
  c)In terms of Searching element.
  d)In terms of Removing element.
A. There are various types of data structure available like arrays,Linked List,Trees,graphs,stacks, queues and hash
   table.
   Advantages:-
   1) Allows easier processing of data.
   2) It allows information stored on disk very efficiently.
   3) These are necessary for designing an efficient algorithm.
   4) We can access data anytime and anywhere.
   5) It is secure way of storage of  data.
   6) Graphs models real life problems
   Disadvantages:-
   1) It is applicable only for advanced users.
   2) If any issue occurs it can be solved only by experts.
   3) Slow access in case of some data types



